>> Mike North: I'm gonna take you through
a little Simple Service Worker for
a second here, and
you can actually access it here as well.
And then what you're gonna do is you're
going to set up a Service Worker,
not unlike the way you set
up that Web Worker before.
And what we're gonna do is simply have it
maybe Console.log on it's installation or
activation.
And then I'm thinking every
time one of those is invoked,
we'll just kinda keep
track of that number.
And the reason that I want you to
do this is you'll be able to see
that you can have it update a number and
console.log it, right?
And that's cool.
You'll see numbers incrementing
as you refresh, neat.
But what you'll notice is that you'll
be able to close all the tabs,
come back, do it again and
the number's in the same place because
your service worker outlived you.
Outlived your tabs,
hopefully it doesn't outlive you.
It might.
[LAUGH] There's some slightly perilous
situations.
>> Speaker 2: Only if you use Elixir, then
your service worker outlives you, right?
>> Mike North: Is this Elixir propaganda?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: All right, so
I have this page over here and
it's a super simple service worker.
In fact, it doesn't really do anything.
That just happens to have a picture of
The Beatles, there's no real reason for
that at this point.
>> Mike North: But you can see that I'm
logging all this stuff to the console,
from service-worker.js.
And this is a glitch,
which means you can click on this remix.
And you can see,
I have a server and some code, but
you see client.js is way too small for
anyone to read.
>> Mike North: It's the basic
service worker that we saw before.
So we have serviceWorker navigator,
start by saying, okay, cool,
you support serviceWorker,
go ahead and register it.
If the registration is successful, we'll
say that and we'll show the registration.
If not,
we'll say something went terribly wrong.
In the serviceWorker, you can see I have
three events that I'm listening for.
On install, I say,
something is installing, that seems good.
On activate, I say, I am now the service
worker in charge, thank you very much.
And then anytime a fetch is made,
now again,
if this was a movie,
we'd have a flashback to Mike saying,
every network request, even images,
are fetches under the hood.
All right,
we're back into the current time again.
And we can see that actually,
if you look at all the fetches happening,
you'll see that image triggering a fetch,
right?
You'll see fetching
the JavaScript triggering a fetch.
You will actually see getting
the index.html triggering a fetch, right?
Which is interesting,
because normally, we load the HTML,
the HTML loads the JavaScript and
the images.
Here even the getting the HTML page
goes pass to the service worker
that existed long before that HTML
page was ever asked for, right?
And it was already present
to intercept that.
But this is also a really
good boilerplate for
what the world's simplest
service worker looks like.
As well as what the world's simplest,
too noisy in all these cases, but
world's simplest version of what
a server worker registration looks like.
Your job is to bring this
in to front-end grocer.
At this point, all we wanna do
is register a service worker.
Logging into the console is totally fine.
And what we wanna do is maybe increment
a number of how many times it's been
installed, or
how many times it's been activated.
How you do that is up to you.
You would do that in
the service worker file itself,
because that is the one that
will exist outside of the page.
And you just increment
those numbers each time.